---
layout: post
title: Escamalations
date: 2011-12-30 18:51
author: grimmash@gmail.com
comments: true
categories: [Exploration, Low Sec, Opinion]
---
Back from the holidays, I hope everyone had a good time and survived the familial mine field! &nbsp;I got myself a Christmas present, but I'll talk about that in another post, maybe. &nbsp;Today, I want to muse about Exploration and Escalations.<br /><br />I like exploration. &nbsp;As PvE goes, it is the most organic experience one can have in Eve. &nbsp;No set locations, no promises, each time I hop in my CovOps, it is a new experience. &nbsp;I've made a little money running sites, nothing great, but I generally stay out of low sec when exploring, so there you go. &nbsp;Yesterday one of my corp mates, who has been talking up low sec escalations for some time, got me out of my mission grinding bliss (deadspace mods don't pay for themselves!) and into low sec for some escamalationing (I just like saying it that way).<br /><br />We ended up going the full four escalations for the Sansha chain he found, which was awesome. &nbsp;We also flew through quite a bit of low sec in a Drake and two Ishkurs, saw a hot-drop, and got hounded by a &nbsp;Hound. &nbsp;Wel also kept a tense eye on a Nyx that apparently was just passing through as we cleared the final site. &nbsp;That would have been overkill, we thought, but a hilarious killmail to be on the wrong end of. &nbsp;All in all we had a generally good time with some nice tense moments, and I have a new found understanding of what I want out of voice coms on a roam.<br /><br />Here is the downside: &nbsp;We humped some 30 jumps, spent about 2 hours, and ended up with some rather underwhelming loot (three mods worth maybe 15 mil split three ways). &nbsp;Such is the life of the explorer. &nbsp;I've gotten high sec sites with no combat that dropped better loot. &nbsp;So for the future, I will go on low sec exploration romps when I want some excitement, and as a way to build my chops flying in a gang, but probably not if I am looking for to max my earnings. &nbsp; That said, it was still one of the more interesting ways to spend a few hours on a cold afternoon.
