---
layout: post
title: Miscellaneous Market Tips
date: 2012-04-25 04:45
author: grimmashauthor
comments: true
categories: [30 Day Challenge, Economy, Trading]
---
I've given a lot of results, but not too much advice in my 30 Day Market challenge. &nbsp;Here are some musings on Eve market trading:<br /><br /><ul><li>Do not accidentally list a large quantity of items at a buy order price instead of the sell order price. &nbsp;Mistakes like that can cost millions. &nbsp;In my case about 10m in one go.</li><li>Check all the figures on the orders when you are playing the .01 game. &nbsp;Players like to list orders at one decimal higher, and then change the dollar amount too. &nbsp;Then you get to wait another five minutes.</li><li>Sometimes you should just let that one or two item order sell or fill if it is too far away from your price.</li><li>Watch for people setting sell orders to catch the next buy order bump. &nbsp;You can grab inventory cheap that way without losing your buy order.</li><li>In the price history, there is no indication as to the nature of the orders that moved. &nbsp;They could all have been buy, or all sell. &nbsp;I'm looking at you, rigs.</li><li>Sometimes it makes sense to flip inventory as you get it, sometimes not. &nbsp;Decide when you set each order if you are going for quantity or speed. &nbsp;It can save you time and order slots down the road.</li><li>Know when to give up on an order. &nbsp;Sometimes it's a bot or a bot-like player, sometimes the movement has stagnated, and sometimes the space gods hate you.</li><li>Do keep a few (only a few!) random, hard to get orders with insane margin. &nbsp;It makes your night when someone docks up right after you bumped you buy order over that damn robo-updater and sold you 5 Cov Ops Cloaks that you have been trying to get for days.</li><li>Pay attention to the hulls selling in your region, and buy up modules that will fit those hulls.</li><li>Turn on the new "Mark My Orders" setting. &nbsp;It is glorious.</li></ul>
