---
layout: post
title: Fail Fits and Rookies
date: 2012-05-18 02:45
author: grimmashauthor
comments: true
categories: [CCP, Fitting, Opinion]
---
<i>Edit: A commenter noted that I am wrong about the tutorials teaching players to use multiple tank types. &nbsp;This is very probably right. &nbsp;I do no think that alters my fundamental point.</i><br /><br />Read <a href="http://poeticstanziel.blogspot.com/2012/05/putting-kibosh-on-ineptitude.html" target="_blank">this</a> over at Poetic, and the comments. &nbsp;Always a fun time, reading the comments. &nbsp;I'm torn on how to handle fail fits. &nbsp;I'm sure I have some fail fits that I like, elite players be damned. &nbsp;I also want to laugh at fail fits. &nbsp;But then I wonder, did that fail fit player buy some PLEX and go nuts, only to get his investment all blowed up and not understand why? &nbsp;And why do so many people ignore advice from those that blew them up? &nbsp;Questions without answers. &nbsp;But one thing could be done.<br /><br />CCP could make the tutorials actually teach people about fits instead of having tutorial missions that encourage fail fits in a roundabout way. &nbsp;I'm talking about those starter tutorial chains that give you a frigate, then give you an armor repper, then give you a shield booster. &nbsp;And each mission tells you to use that specific module. &nbsp;Not very good. &nbsp;<a href="http://andknowing.blogspot.com/" target="_blank">Arydanika</a> talked about this on her blog a few weeks or months ago with some low-sec style guys, and they came to the conclusion that there should be fitting tutorials. &nbsp;I agree.<br /><br />So I propose, in the same vein, the following tutorials to be added as a Capsuleer Ship Fitting chain, given to you at the same time as the other newbie tutorials, or possible after the military/combat chain:<br /><br /><ol><li>Charge the Batteries: Teaching capacitor basics.</li><li>Plugging in the Chips: Fitting to CPU requirements.</li><li>Turning on the Lights: Fitting to powergrid requirements.</li><li>She Can't Take Anymore, Captain!: Shield tanking.</li><li>Structural Integrity: Armor tanking.</li><li>Fire When You See the Whites of Their Eyes: Close range fitting.</li><li>Get Under Their Guns: Close range combat</li><li>One Shot, One Kill: Long range fitting.</li><li>Tack to Starboard: Long range fighting and kiting.</li><li>We're Going to Need a Bigger Ship: Moving up to a destroyer.</li></ol><div>There, I made names and topics. &nbsp;CCP can do the rest.</div>
