---
layout: post
title: Back in the Saddle
date: 2012-09-19 16:56
author: grimmashauthor
comments: true
categories: [Opinion]
---
This last week or so is the first time I've had to dedicate some solid time to Eve since early May! &nbsp;Life got busy. I was living with my now, but not at the time, parents-in-law. &nbsp;You can infer from the previous that I am now a married man. &nbsp;I moved across the country twice. &nbsp;I am also ramping up into a master's project for my program, so a bit of time was poured into that! &nbsp;I also developed a small Minecraft/Tekkit addiction that the wife's father could at least understand, so it seemed more acceptable as leisure with the computer in a public space. &nbsp;That said, and back to Eve:<br /><br />A lot has changed.<br /><br />On the individual front, 4 months of afk training has given me the ability to sit in a new T3, all the T2 hulls skills below battleships, T2 projectiles and hybrids, and a lot more skills overall. &nbsp;I'm about a month from being able to fly every sub BS ship in the game, and fit them almost appropriately. &nbsp;That's after... about 31 million SP. &nbsp;It's rather interesting to log in, look at my skills, and see not a long list of what needs to be done, but a list of things I am free to choose from.<br /><br />From a game perspective a lot has changed too! &nbsp;Mining is full of a lot of things I need to relearn. &nbsp;My pet spreadsheet is now out of date, so that needs some work. &nbsp;The ongoing rebalancing of ships is quite interesting, and something I need to look at. &nbsp;And all the new interface goodness is something that I imagine will take some time to digest.<br /><br />***<br /><br />One a serious note, I would also like to give my condolences to Sean Smith's (Vile Rat) family and friends, as well as the other families impacted by the events that took place. &nbsp;I doubt they will ever see this, but it is a tragic and senseless loss that no words can describe. &nbsp;I did not know him directly, or interact with him in Eve, but no family in any country or of any creed or belief should suffer such losses. &nbsp;I wish all involved strength and compassion in the days to come.
