---
layout: post
title: PI Redux
date: 2012-03-31 17:00
author: grimmash@gmail.com
comments: true
categories: [Economy, Industry, Opinion, Planetary Interaction]
---
I recently moved back to the same chunk of space where my PI installations are. &nbsp;I never took them down, so I decided to visit those command centers, clean out the warehouses and reemploy my minions of production. &nbsp;Mostly I wanted to see if my predictions of <a href="http://69.89.31.225/~grimmash/2011/12/01/pi-changes-the-carebear-version/" target="_blank">doom and gloom</a>&nbsp;were actually true.<br /><br />Well, they mostly weren't. &nbsp;The reactivated planets are pulling in a nice little profit, even with the new taxes. &nbsp;I think it may even be more profitable than before, but I can't be arsed at this point to dust of the spreadsheets and try and do the analysis at this point. &nbsp;However there is still the sticker shock of looking at that export fee! &nbsp;&lt;&lt;834,456.00 ISK&gt;&gt; to get a small pile of plasmoids, yeouch!<br /><br />The export fees do represent a little bit more of a barrier to casual players who may be cashed-strapped though. &nbsp;Getting your planet set up costs a few millions, usually, and I wonder how many players have set up a planet and then come to pick up the goods only to be oddly disappointed and discouraged by the taxes... &nbsp;Perhaps the costs could be defrayed by installing a planetary shuttle structure and shifting costs to the actual running of the PI structures (like manufacturing)? &nbsp;You sacrifice a little PG/CPU to skirt the NPCCO/POCO by running a private shuttle network?<br /><br />Regardless, I was partially wrong in my assessment of the changes to PI, but the whole system could still use some work in order to be enjoyable. &nbsp;I wonder how Dust will interface with PI? &nbsp;That could be interesting indeed.
