---
layout: post
title: Stealthy Bombers
date: 2012-04-02 21:59
author: grimmash@gmail.com
comments: true
categories: [PvP]
---
Hanging in corp the other day I was asked if I wanted to practice some PvP tactics. &nbsp;Being ever the eager nub, I agreed. &nbsp;Twenty minutes and a few frustrating warps to get modules later, I was in a Manticore, practicing bombing runs. &nbsp;The first attempt ended rather poorly, with my shields empty and my corpmate saying "See that red bar? &nbsp;That means I killed you."<br /><br />A few tries later I had the basic strategy down, no target lock from the enemy, but as I was one Manticore and he was in a Battlecruiser, and a passive regen stalemate ensued. &nbsp;Then my shields dropped by 50%. &nbsp;What the hell? &nbsp;Let's just say I have a newfound respect for many of the lesser used items in Eve, and I learned a lot about trying to hunt down foes in a stealthy piece of aluminum.<br /><br />Here are some takeaways for players new to the SB:<br /><br /><ul><li>Patience. &nbsp;Lots of it. &nbsp;They can't see you until you decide to drop cloak, and that is hugely important.</li><li>Understand the range of ALL your modules, and the modules your opponent is likely to fit. &nbsp;If you burn in like a nub, all the range dampening in the world won't make a difference.</li><li>Find some friends. &nbsp;Torpedos seem powerful, but your opponent may have more tank than one SB can handle. &nbsp;Without tackle, not much will stop your prey from leaving with some new intel.</li><li>More patience. &nbsp;They don't know you are there, and may warp off for some random reason right as you are getting ready to decloak and open the Tubes of Hell.</li><li>The ship you are fighting may not be fit the way you would fit it. &nbsp;There are a tremendous number of mods in the game, and just because you don't know or use something, your opponent may have a nasty trick or two hidden in that juicy hull you want to pop.</li></ul>
