---
layout: post
title: Blog-a-Day 19: CSM7
date: 2012-02-09 21:40
author: grimmash@gmail.com
comments: true
categories: [CSM7, Opinion]
---
<br /><div><span style="font-family: Arial, serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 22px; text-align: left;"><i><a href="http://poeticstanziel.blogspot.com/" target="_blank">Poetic Stanziel</a> sometimes posts community discussion questions, with the most recent being:</i></span></div><div><i><span style="font-family: Arial, serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 22px; text-align: left;">Question #019</span></i></div><div></div><blockquote style="font: italic normal normal 13px/normal georgia; line-height: 20px; margin-bottom: 1em; margin-left: 20px; margin-right: 20px; margin-top: 1em; text-align: left;">Do you know who you will be voting for in the upcoming CSM7 elections? If not, who are you following closely?</blockquote><br /><div><i>Here is my response:</i></div><div><br /></div><div>First off, I have not decided who I will vote for.&nbsp; I will not be voting for null bloc candidates, as I assume they will have no trouble getting the votes needed.&nbsp; Those blocs will game the system a bit to try and split the other voting blocs, which are much less organized.&nbsp; Others have written about this already, and Mittens has talked about the shortcomings and benefits of the CSM voting system in more than a few places. &nbsp;I am also not terribly concerned about most of the incumbents. &nbsp;If they are running again, a vote for them is effectively a referendum vote.<o:p></o:p></div><div><br /></div><div>I am following a few candidates though, so here are my thoughts on the ones I am aware of. &nbsp;And yes, I used most of <a href="http://freebooted.blogspot.com/2012/02/csm7-elections-call-of-wild.html" target="_blank">Seismic Stan's</a> links for the candidates, because although I have been browsing <a href="https://forums.eveonline.com/default.aspx?g=topics&amp;f=268" target="_blank">Jita Park</a>, it was easier.<o:p></o:p></div><div><br /></div><div><a href="https://forums.eveonline.com/default.aspx?g=posts&amp;t=66900&amp;find=unread" target="_blank"><b>Hans Jagerblitzen</b></a><o:p></o:p></div><div>I have a <a href="http://69.89.31.225/~grimmash/2012/02/08/csm7-hans-jagerblitzen/" target="_blank">post</a> up already on this guy.&nbsp; He seems to have given a fair amount of thought to his campaign and approach to the CSM.&nbsp; He seems focused on iteration over transformation.&nbsp; As CCP seem more amenable to sharing iteration ideas as compared to overhaul ideas, this seems to be a good tactic.&nbsp; He doesn’t talk about null or WH space, and states other candidates who will be elected can intelligently fill those roles on the CSM.&nbsp; I like him so far.</div><div><o:p></o:p></div><div><br /></div><div><a href="https://forums.eveonline.com/default.aspx?g=posts&amp;t=61958" target="_blank"><b>Chribba</b></a><o:p></o:p></div><div>CHRIBBA! &nbsp;CHRIBBA! CHRIBBA! &nbsp;But seriously...</div><div><br /></div><div><a href="https://forums.eveonline.com/default.aspx?g=posts&amp;t=67217&amp;p=4" target="_blank"><b>Kelduum Revaan</b></a><o:p></o:p></div><div>I like E-Uni, and spent some time there on an alt, and contributed to the Wiki a bit while I was learning my way around Eve.&nbsp; So all due respect to a great organization.&nbsp; Campaign wise, I can’t tell what the heck Kelduum stands for.&nbsp; He polled for support internally, then went silent.&nbsp; He half announced, then went silent.&nbsp; Since then most of his statements seem to be more platitudes than platform planks.&nbsp; Further reading of the forum thread has done little to swat me to vote for Kelduum. &nbsp;I have hope that this campaign will pick up and gain some content, but for now I cannot throw my support to Kelduum over other High Sec candidates.</div><div><o:p></o:p></div><div><o:p><br /></o:p></div><div><o:p><a href="https://forums.eveonline.com/default.aspx?g=posts&amp;t=67294&amp;find=unread" target="_blank"><b>Draco Llasa</b></a></o:p></div><div>He seems to be another level headed candidate, but I cannot say I know much about him. &nbsp;His forum post is nice, and touts some accomplishments. &nbsp;Unfortunately as I have seen him touting himself until now, and all CSM minutes were attributed to "the CSM", it is hard for me to judge his previous efforts. &nbsp;This may be a shortcoming of my internet reading, but there it stands for me.</div><div><br /></div><div><a href="https://forums.eveonline.com/default.aspx?g=posts&amp;t=65017&amp;find=unread" target="_blank"><b>John Revenent</b></a></div><div>A self proclaimed man of few words. &nbsp;Those words are interesting, but not terribly informative. &nbsp;I'll keep an eye on this one to see if anything interesting develop.</div><div><br /></div><div><a href="https://forums.eveonline.com/default.aspx?g=posts&amp;t=12443&amp;find=unread" target="_blank"><b>Mintrolio</b></a><o:p></o:p></div><div>ALL SECS IS GOOD SECS!&nbsp; HIGH SECS IS DEPPENDIGNBLE LIKES LADY YOUS MARRIAGED TOO.&nbsp; LOW SECS LIKES LAST CALLINGS.&nbsp; NULL SECS ARE &nbsp;VER BEST SECS BUT ALL SECS IS MAENIGNFULS.&nbsp; WORMHOLES ARE WEIRD SECS, LIKE TIMES BE GOIGNS TO TIGUANAS.&nbsp; POASTING TO CONFIRMIGN SERIOS AN IMPROTENT CAMPAIGNINGS!</div><div><o:p></o:p></div><div><br /></div><div><b>Others</b></div><div>And in order to be complete, <a href="http://jestertrek.blogspot.com/2012/01/csm6-incumbents.html" target="_blank">here</a> are the incumbents who are running, courtesy of <a href="http://jestertrek.blogspot.com/" target="_blank">Ripard Teg</a>.</div><div><br /></div>
