---
layout: post
title: Tripping in Rifters
date: 2012-03-22 17:00
author: grimmash@gmail.com
comments: true
categories: [Community, Opinion, PvP]
---
I put a frigate pilot in RvB recently, and this was a good choice. &nbsp;A few highlights of the whole RvB experience:<br /><br /><ul><li>People tend to pay attention to comms and be somewhat focused. &nbsp;This is a great change of pace from some small groups I have previously flown through hostile space with.</li><li>The PvP ON button. &nbsp;As long as I get on between lunch and midnight (US TZ), there is usually a 30-40 man fleet cruising around, looking to find the other fleet and make some fun happen.</li><li>Cheap ships are fun. &nbsp;I fly T1 fit Rifters, because if I loot one wreck every few fights, I pay for all the ships I lose and then some without really trying.</li><li>RvB communication. &nbsp;They tend to try and balance fleets against each other to make the fights at least interesting. &nbsp;This is not to say there is not some blobbing, or stragglers caught out, but it is generally attempted to make things fair-ish.</li><li>89-9 kill ratio, at this point, with 99.5% efficiency. &nbsp;That's just sick, and more indicative of how the other fleets call primaries as compared to my skills in a Rifter. &nbsp;And the fact that my Rifters cost about 500k right now...</li></ul><div>Some not-so-highlights:</div><div><ul><li>Modules being bought out/not stocked. &nbsp;I dare say some budding industrialist could set up shop in Hageken, Ako and Autaris and make a killing supplying just about any module regularly used in PvP. &nbsp;It's awkward trying to fit ships in a permanent warzone that is not conducive to cheap indy ships.</li><li>Complaints about hulls being used. &nbsp;Both sides do it, but the corp I am not in seems to love moaning after seeing someone undock in a 'Cane.</li><li>The overview. &nbsp;This is my first real experience of fleet-sized engagements, and the overview is rather painful, and I know understand the challenge of trying to find that damn Maller in a group of 30 flashy reds.</li></ul><div>But overall, putting an alt in RvB has been phenomenally fun and a great way to learn a little bit about PvP. &nbsp;You should try it.</div></div>
