---
layout: post
title: CSM7: Hans Jagerblitzen
date: 2012-02-08 23:22
author: grimmash@gmail.com
comments: true
categories: [CSM7, Opinion]
---
So <a href="http://hansshotfirst.blogspot.com/" target="_blank">Hans Jagerblitzen</a>, in an effort for publicity and&nbsp;to court my vote, went so far as to find my blog and put a comment up linking to his blog, and even posted the comment on a post that talked about CSM7. &nbsp;He's got my vote for organization at the very least!<br /><br />But seriously, I read Hans'&nbsp;<a href="http://eve-files.com/dl/251927" target="_blank">manifesto of sorts</a>, and I think he is a very thoughtful &nbsp;addition to the CSM 7 race. &nbsp;Although I do not agree with all his stances, I find the effort he spent thinking about issues, compiling his thoughts in a mostly coherent document, &nbsp;and crediting/admitting lack of knowledge on some issues are all good qualities in a CSM candidate. &nbsp;He should pique interest, especially in the Faction Warfare and High Sec player bases he seems to be courting. &nbsp;Hans seems to know where he stands (on the outside, looking in on the bloc voters and the fractured high sec mobs), and does not claim to be the end all candidate, but rather someone who wants to provide a reasoned voice to the CSM and CCP.<br /><br />I agree with many members of the Eve community who have already given most, if not all, of the "full" CSM seats to null bloc candidates and CSM6 incumbents. &nbsp;So a player willing and able to make a cohesive opening case for his candidacy ought to be looked at by those who are not already voting for null or CSM6 incumbents. &nbsp;After all, the "best" <a href="https://forums.eveonline.com/default.aspx?g=posts&amp;t=67217&amp;find=unread" target="_blank">high sec candidate</a> is already a bit of a disappointment, failing to do much besides test the waters in order to both count his support and build his platform...<br /><br />Let's see if Hans lives up to his nice debut.
