---
layout: post
title: Adding Weight to Wars
date: 2012-05-21 00:11
author: grimmashauthor
comments: true
categories: [Faction Warfare, Opinion, PvP]
---
After reading a lot of post about wardec changes, and thinking about the new v the old systems, and then digging into my own thoughts, I keep finding myself asking: &nbsp;What is the point of War Declarations in High Sec?<br /><br />At the core, a war dec allows Corp A to pay a penalty (isk), and in exchange Corp A gets a free pass to kill anyone in Corp B for a period of time. &nbsp;Simple enough, you are paying to suspend the normal rules of the game. &nbsp;But what is the point of this suspension of rules? &nbsp;It is clear for Corp A, if ship destruction and loot, or the more esoteric value of tears are considered valuable. &nbsp;Corp B gains very little. &nbsp;A change to learn how to harden up, possibly get some kills or loot, or a chance to sit in a station for a week to hopefully bore the attackers into not paying for more rule suspension. &nbsp;Oddly imbalanced no matter how you look at it. &nbsp;And if you have made it this far, I promise there is an actual point to MY ramblings on this topic.<br /><br />What is missing in this whole equation of war decs is meaning. &nbsp;Corp A and Corp B will gain two things out of the conflict: &nbsp;Killboard info and maybe isk. &nbsp;This seems like a poor trade for disruption of the rules. I think there should be more at stake for both sides. &nbsp;Defenders should have a reward for actually defending. &nbsp;Attackers should have a reward for succeeding. &nbsp;You could play with this in a lot of ways. &nbsp;Kills could reward LP or Standings. &nbsp;A loss (for either side) could result in station rights or office access changes. &nbsp;Wardecs could become a tool to bring Faction Warfare into High Sec in a very limited way. &nbsp;I'm not sure what the right answer is, but it seems odd that wardecs are allowed by the Empire factions if they do nothing but act as an isk sink.<br /><br />And this could go deeper into how Corporations work. &nbsp;Perhaps if you found a corp, your office and HQ locations become de facto Faction indicators. &nbsp;So if you HQ Fancy Pony Bros in Rens, you are a de facto Minmatar corp, and can only be wardecced by non Gallente or Minmatar corps. &nbsp;Low sec HQs would be unaligned, or choose a FW group to affiliate with. &nbsp;Null corps would obviously be outside the purview of faction standing. &nbsp;A huge portion of Eve's fiction and story is tied to the interplay between Empire and Pirate factions. <br /><br />This is obviously a half-baked set of thoughts, but I think wars need more meaning to make them matter beyond how they hit player wallets. &nbsp;Let's make player corporations a part of the larger story of Eve. &nbsp;Let's make wars matter when moons are not being fought over.<br /><br />Flame away!
