---
layout: post
title: Jita Blog Talk
date: 2012-04-04 23:07
author: grimmash@gmail.com
comments: true
categories: [Community, Economy, Opinion, PvP]
---
MOre than a few people have been talking lately about the upcoming <a href="http://soundcloud.com/cptunderpants/state-of-the-goonion-march" target="_blank">Jitahellcamp</a>. &nbsp;Ripard Teg thinks CCP have their collective <a href="http://jestertrek.blogspot.com/2012/04/song-of-ice-and-fire.html" target="_blank">backs to the wall</a>. &nbsp;Syncaine is musing on the <a href="http://syncaine.com/2012/04/04/eve-jita-phoenix/" target="_blank">urban planning challenges</a> of holding all the tears that will come and the health ramifications of drinking said tears. &nbsp;Poetic seems to have not really noticed, with his latest adventures in a <a href="http://poeticstanziel.blogspot.com/" target="_blank">stream-of-consciousness</a> pile of posts. &nbsp;I;m sure you can find some others to read too.<br /><br />I talked about this in regards to the <a href="http://69.89.31.225/~grimmash/2012/03/29/april-24th-welcome-to-the-inferno/" target="_blank">philosophical context</a> of the conflict that is coming. &nbsp;But what about the day to day? &nbsp;Here are some thoughts and predictions.<br /><br />I cannot wait for the Jitahellcamp to come, and I think it will be a wonderful moment for Eve. &nbsp;So I am a bit more Syncaine than Ripard. &nbsp;There are also some long-term implications if the Gooswarm wins the field.<br /><br />The economy of Eve may finally have to split up and the players will realize one mega-hub is a terrible way to run the economy. &nbsp;The only reason attacking Jita matters is because it is THE hub of the game. &nbsp;Sure, other empire hubs exist, but they do not hold a candle to the volume that is Jita IV. &nbsp;If trade is significantly disrupted, that makes a strong argument for spreading out a bit, which in turn opens up greater options for buyers, sellers, traders, and just about anyone interested in a more dynamic market geography.<br /><br />Get ready to profit! &nbsp;I think there is a good chance many traders will ignore the warnings, or don't pay enough attention to the metagame. &nbsp;If the camp is successful and shuts down trade into and out of Jita there will be a lot of opportunity to make some isk on the edges. &nbsp;Not to mention the stockpiles in Jita being temporarily removed from market circulation. &nbsp;I leave it to you to decide what is going to be valuable, but you may want to make preparations.<br /><br />Buy your stuff now. &nbsp;If you think you might need anything in the week or two after the 24th, you may want to get those supplies before supply chains and trade convoys are disrupted.<br /><br />Put your bibs on, because there just might be an all you eat buffet of non-Eve players writing, blogging, and generally mucking about in and around New Eden. &nbsp;I cannot wait to see how Massively tries to spin the hellcamp. &nbsp;Be prepared for the sound of a thousand voices screaming, followed by... more screaming. &nbsp;As Syncaine and Ripard said, the forums and blogs will be awash with lots of people complaining about the GSF and CFC. &nbsp;Although this is rather the norm, I think the volume will go up to eleven.&nbsp;&nbsp;Time for a wonderful chance to simply observe people in Eve responding to actual content. People say they want more, but often regret getting what they want. <br /><br />Is CCP reinforcing nodes, and will Jita get TiDi-ed in the days leading up to the jitahellcamp? &nbsp;I can see a lot of pilots getting a fresh clone and a few ships to enjoy the pretty colors when hundreds (thousands?) of Tornados, tacklers, Orcas, freighters, pods and god knows what else shows up in Jita. &nbsp;I know I'm thinking of trying to get good seats, and maybe onto a few killmails. &nbsp;You might want to set up some safes &nbsp;now though, for all the good it might do. &nbsp;If I go or not, this promises to be an interesting few days.
