---
layout: post
title: Faction Warfare in Inferno
date: 2012-05-15 05:11
author: grimmashauthor
comments: true
categories: [Faction Warfare]
---
I just read the new <a href="http://community.eveonline.com/devblog.asp?a=blog&amp;nbid=28659" target="_blank">dev blog</a>. &nbsp;My two main accounts are faction standing agnostic, in that they decline any and all anti-faction missions because I have a habit of relocating to various areas in space. &nbsp;Grimmash so far has 8+ standings with the Amarr Navy, Federation Navy and Ishukone Watch, as does my industrial pilot. &nbsp;On those characters I value the ability to get perfect refines and jumps clones anywhere, and I like being able to fly in any area of space without wondering if gate guns are going to light me up like Paxista smuggling a <a href="http://wiki.eveonline.com/en/wiki/Pax_Ammaria_(Chronicle)" target="_blank">certain book</a>.<br /><br />But my third account has a frigate pilot that does not care a whit about faction standings. She's only meant for fun. &nbsp;The new FW changes excite me, and after a week and half of the trade alt training for more order slots, I may have to get that pilot up to Tech II projectiles. &nbsp;The thought of having meaningful, structured pvp appeals to me. &nbsp;I spent an all too brief stint in RvB, having fun blowing people up, and I have... 50 or so Rifters and half as many Thrashers languishing over in the RvB systems. &nbsp;I could up fit those to real pvp fits without too much trouble. &nbsp;By real I mean not meta 1 modules meant to be thrown against the rocks of Blue Fleets.<br /><br />All of this is my long way of saying Faction Warfare may get some attention from me soon, and that is exciting! &nbsp;High sec wardecs are pointless, but the new changes to FW are adding some persistent sandbox goodness to the mix. &nbsp;If you want a much better look at FW, the changes, and reasons to get excited about it, go check <a href="http://www.gamerchick.net/" target="_blank">this site</a> out.
