---
layout: post
title: Failing at (Internet Spaceship) Life
date: 2012-01-18 20:52
author: grimmash@gmail.com
comments: true
categories: [Advice, Fitting, Missions]
---
I saved up and trained up over the last month or so, and finally got myself into the ship I wanted to fly since I saw one in action, the Tengu. &nbsp;My fit was a rather standard mission running fit, as I recently moved to a new section of Empire and have been grinding standing for various characters and stocking up on the isk while I decide on my next move in Eve. &nbsp;My fit ran along these lines:<br /><br /><br />[Tengu, Mission]<br /><br />Tengu Defensive - Amplification Node<br />Tengu Electronics - Dissolution Sequencer<br />Tengu Engineering - Augmented Capacitor Reservoir<br />Tengu Offensive - Accelerated Ejection Bay<br />Tengu Propulsion - Fuel Catalyst<br /><br />Heavy Missile Launcher II, Scourge Heavy Missile<br />Heavy Missile Launcher II, Scourge Heavy Missile<br />Heavy Missile Launcher II, Scourge Heavy Missile<br />Heavy Missile Launcher II, Scourge Heavy Missile<br />Heavy Missile Launcher II, Scourge Heavy Missile<br />Heavy Missile Launcher II, Scourge Heavy Missile<br /><br />Republic Fleet 10MN Afterburner<br />Caldari Navy Shield Boost Amplifier<br />Pithum C-Type Medium Shield Booster<br />Invulnerability Field II<br />Invulnerability Field II<br />Photon Scattering Field II<br /><br />Caldari Navy Ballistic Control System<br />Caldari Navy Ballistic Control System<br />Caldari Navy Ballistic Control System<br />Power Diagnostic System II<br /><br />Medium Capacitor Control Circuit II<br />Medium Capacitor Control Circuit II<br />Medium Capacitor Control Circuit I<br /><br />As far as Tengus go, this is not a terribly expensive fit, coming in around the 1.2 B mark when I got the whole thing together. &nbsp;I have a few things to say about the 'Gu. &nbsp;First, it is an amazing ship in the role I built it for. &nbsp;Fast, agile, and deft at handling most PvE encounters. &nbsp;The DPS is very nice, about 450 or so, depending on what missiles I load into the launchers. &nbsp;The tank is half speed, and three quarters shield booster. &nbsp;Yes, that adds up to over 100% for those inclined to math. &nbsp;The range is about 110 km, which is further than all but the farthest mission spawns. &nbsp;The 'Gu is also aesthetically pleasing in a odd, inherently Caldari way.<br /><br />There are some downsides to the 'Gu. &nbsp;It makes most level 4 missions trivial to the point of boredom. &nbsp;It's a bit of a panic to fly the first few days, due to the enormous value of the ship. &nbsp;I found myself much more likely to warp off encounters when seeing the shield tank take a few hits, and I really watch gates and local while flying it. &nbsp;But most of all, the 'Gu is so mind numbingly effective at most things in Empire that it lulls you into a false sense of security after a week or so. &nbsp;You probably saw this coming: &nbsp;I lost my Tengu not too long after I built it, because I was an idiot.<br /><br />The details of this death are very simple, and in hindsight the cause of death was hubris. &nbsp;I had been pulling missions like candy, and while puttering around wiping out fleets of Sansha, I started to build a nice little Manticore on an alt. &nbsp;Side note - Grimmash is a very capable stealth bomber pilot with most missile skills hanging out in the 4s and 5s, so targeting a frigate with a torpedo, while not the most efficient using of isk, will result in space debris within a few shots. &nbsp;The pilot I made the Manticore for does not have such nice support skills, and I forgot this fact. So I built the Manty, pulled a Worlds Collide, looked at the Eve-Survival report, and made a series of mistakes which I shall elucidate for you, dear reader.<br /><br /><br /><ol><li>The most vital mistake: &nbsp;Angels use webs AND scram, not just webs. &nbsp;I misread the mission report and saw "5 webs" not "5 webs/scrams".</li><li>The 'Gu, although decent at taking out frigates, will not atomize 5 elite NPC frigates faster than a small fleet of cruisers and battleships will break a medium shield booster, even if it is deadspace gear.</li><li>A SB is not the suitable suport ship to take out said elite NPC frigates.</li><li>A speed tank is absolutely useless when you something like 4-6 active webs hindering propulsion.</li><li>Use of kiting and good transversal is the difference between tanking with ease and slowly watching something burn with you in it.</li></ol><div>And not so much a mistake but a fun fact: &nbsp;45 seconds is about how long it takes to go through the stages of denial, anger, bargaining and acceptance when watching your tank break in the most expensive ship you own. &nbsp;Oddly, I skipped depression unti la few days later when I saw a friend flying her Muninn and wanted to flex my DPS muscles, only to remember that I was now back in my Drake/Raven combo team.</div><div><br /></div><div>The most interesting part of the whole thing was how much I didn't rage. &nbsp;I always figured losing a ship that expensive would sting more, but overall I think having had, and lost, the 'Gu reinvigorated Eve for &nbsp;me. &nbsp;I've been trying more approaches to mission running instead of just grinding things out, and it lead to me undergoing a rather profitable scanning run in order to avoid missions. &nbsp;It made me remember that unpredictability is more interesting than stasis, and that sometime a big loss is actually a good thing.</div>
