---
layout: post
title: Meanwhile, In Black Rise...
date: 2013-04-14 20:39
author: grimmashauthor
comments: true
categories: [Faction Warfare, Low Sec, PvP]
---
I had surgery a few days ago, so I missed all the fun in Enulari over the weekend. &nbsp;Boo!<br /><br />No longer will the Caldari be using Ena for quick jumps into Nenn. &nbsp;Hikkoken, my favorite place to lose frigates, has no stations. &nbsp;In fact, no systems that the Caldari control neighboring Nennemaila have stations, so I kind of hope the squids push back and take something. &nbsp;So I'm fighting neutrals and lowering my sec status. &nbsp;I've found a few fights there recently, and I just had a fun one that makes me like Eve.<br /><br />I'm in Hikkoken, running down buttons, because why the hell not? &nbsp;I'll take a nice pile of LP for hitting the scan button. &nbsp;A neutral Atron hopped into my plex (because I own it, right?). &nbsp;I was also in a kitey Atron, and we had a fun little dance. &nbsp;I wasn't quite hitting enough, but he kept letting me get out of point range. &nbsp;So I got out at mid structure. &nbsp;GFs happen, and then he says "I need to learn to fly better." &nbsp;I told him to not let me get out of point range. &nbsp;We both ran back to Nenn, and met up in the same plex in Hikkoken a few minutes later. &nbsp;I tried to be tricky, and loaded up some extra long-range ammo, thinking maybe he would be so focused on closing range that I could kite him just right and have a nice long point kill.<br /><br />Well that failed. &nbsp;I lost the Atron. &nbsp;But damn if the little 1v1 wasn't fun. &nbsp;And damn if it isn't nice to see people going out on their own just looking for fights. &nbsp;FW has seen a lot of fleets lately, and I love them. &nbsp;But it's also nice to get into little scraps where two people can just shoot it out without the inevitable imbalance of the small gang dropping in. &nbsp;If I can't count on FW fleets to satisfy my PvP fix, I'll take the neutrals who wil.<br /><br />The Atron is rapidly becoming a fun little frig to experiment with. &nbsp;It has almost no tank, but they cost so little to lose that I now question myself if I last for more that 15 minutes in one. &nbsp;Today's lasted for the better part of an hour. &nbsp;I'm doing this wrong.
