---
layout: post
title: Luminotgonnahappen
date: 2013-03-22 19:26
author: grimmashauthor
comments: true
categories: [Faction Warfare, Live Event, PvP]
---
I tried to go to Luminaire today, but alas, it was not to be. &nbsp;A fleet of us got together, sorted out logistics, spooked some camps along the way from FW LS to Dodixie, and then we watched the Live Feed of the Luminaire event. &nbsp;Once the Leviathan was at about 30% shield, we said screw waiting, let's go. &nbsp;We had been holding back to see if the null sec fleets would pound each other down, but that was not to be.<br /><br />We got to the Pettinck-Luminaire gate at were locked out. &nbsp;For a while. &nbsp;While watching hundreds of ships orbit a gate on the lowest graphical settings was a new experience for me, it was less than enthralling. &nbsp;I honestly had more fun playing cat and mouse to move some Caldari gatecamps out of the way earlier. &nbsp;We were making the route safe for some of our lowsec pilots to rally up.<br /><br />As I was sitting at the gate, idly punching the jump button to see the error message, the gate briefly unlocked, and I was pulled through all by my lonesome. &nbsp;My Myrmidon was immediately, although languidly, target, scrammed and <a href="http://eve-kill.net/?a=kill_detail&amp;kll_id=16904805" target="_blank">popped</a> by the fine members of various branches of the Goonswarm. &nbsp;TiDi gave me a wonderful slow motion experience. &nbsp;On the plus side I got my pod out. &nbsp;Yeah, those Navy Cap Boosters were from the active tanked fit that I dropped for plates to use with our logi. &nbsp;Who were having a grand old time on the other side of the gate.<br /><br />I warped off, and a very odd thing happened. &nbsp;Because I had somehow accrued the combat timer that prevents jumping, even though I was targeted and fired upon first (someone tell me what I don't understand about aggression mechanics, please!), I had to bounce around Luminaire in TiDi for a few minutes before trying to escape. &nbsp;My pod, while in warp, told me I was being warp scrambled, and I was taking pod damage. &nbsp;So I picked another celestial and started spamming the warp button. &nbsp;In a very odd collection of moments, I went from being scrammed while in warp to being scrammed while in warp in a completely different direction. &nbsp;I don't even know how this is possible. &nbsp;If I am warping, I'm not targetable, or scrammable, I think. &nbsp;Much less able to take damage. &nbsp;But all these things occurred at the same time!<br /><br />I got out. &nbsp;I went back to Dodixie.<br /><br />So overall, the whole Luminaire event was a bust for me. &nbsp;No chance to see the Leviathan, although I was watching the feed. &nbsp;I heard it went down. &nbsp;Cool beans, but what else would happen? &nbsp;It is Gallente space, after all. &nbsp;The whole experience left me wondering about a few things:<br /><br />Eve's interface for large scale events is terrible. &nbsp;The hostiles I tried to target and interact with on the Luminaire Gate were so lost in the overview that the ships popped or warped before I could do anything.<br /><br />On the Luminaire side, the gate camp was a clusterfuck, in multiple ways :). &nbsp;I knew I would lose the Myrm, and that's fine. &nbsp;I just had no chance to really respond to anything. &nbsp;It took getting halfway through armor before I could lock or launch drones or fire. &nbsp;I also incurred the aggressor tag somehow, even though I was locked, scrammed, TP'd and taking damage before I locked anyone. &nbsp;I probably don't understand aggression in Eve well enough at this point, but it seems silly.<br /><br />The overview really can't handle large events, either. &nbsp;I have a few tabs set up just to sort friendlies, hostiles, war targets, etc. &nbsp;It was still useless today. &nbsp;The pod-saver tab worked, only because it has nothing in it save for planets, gates, and the sun.<br /><br />From a player participation side, the system locks and lag and TiDi kind of ruined the whole experience. &nbsp;Great kudos to CCP for doing this event. &nbsp;I love the idea, I anticipated the hell out of it. &nbsp;They publicized it, the community got behind it. &nbsp;But in execution it pretty much fell flat. &nbsp;The rest of my fleet never jumped through, and eventually turned around to regroup and head back to Low Sec.<br /><br />Maybe next time, CCP should look at spreading such events out. &nbsp;Make various fleets have to choose from a number of systems to engage in. &nbsp;This would make the whole thing less node-intensive, and reduce the player counts in each system. &nbsp;With one spot where everyone wants to go, the infrastructure ground to halt, and the larger blocs got to run much of the show. &nbsp;Even more people were just stuck sitting at gates.<br /><br />Overall, I'm glad the event happened, but I was hoping to play some role besides killmail fodder. &nbsp;Cheers to anyone who got in and took part!
