---
layout: post
title: Fozzie and My old post
date: 2014-12-03 21:48
author: grimmash@gmail.com
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
I have lived in wormholes for half a year now.  I’m not sure if the changes in Crius were good or bad on balance, and I am just sort of waiting to see what happens.  Nothing earth-shattering has come to our doorstep yet.  But I’m trying to determine if any patterns have changed.  One seems to have altered a bit.
There are a few patterns you get used to seeing in WH space that can give you quick intel on a system after jumping in and looking around.  The two most useful and immediate pieces of info, aside from seeing ships on d-scan, is seeing towers with force fields and checking the initial results of the anomaly scanner.  If you see force fields, or you see a very small number of anomalies, you can kind of bet on finding an occupant of some sort.  Either some day trippers or raiders came through, or you’ll find an active tower somewhere.
People who live in wormholes tend to farm anomalies in order to get the sleeper loot within for isk, and to make it easier to keep an eye on new signatures.  By managing your anomalies you increase your own profit, and you can quickly scan down that new anomaly to see if it is a wormhole, or another site.  Since wormhole anomalies spawn based on region/constellation, if you clear your own out, you won’t get too many unless others are doing the same elsewhere.  So just watching anomalies in your home system and afield tells you how often people in your class/region/constellation are running sites, how active the folks in another hole are, and by extrapolation, how active wormholes in general are.
Lately I have been seeing a lot of a third combination: Towers with force fields and a whole pile of anomalies.  Not just one or two, but ten or twenty anomalies. This worries me to some extent.  This means there are lots of wormhole players who have enough fuel in their towers that players logged in and did a fuel run or resupplied within the last month or so, but they have not bothered to clear out their home wormholes.  This could just be the RNG of Bob giving us a bunch of sleepy systems, or it could be a sign that wormhole players are getting less active.  On one hand, less active players means my goods should be worth more when I get to market.  But on the other hand, if wormholers are staying away, you have less people to try and get into stupid fights with, and sites will get harder to respawn in the home wormhole.  As someone who enjoys a good fight now and then, and given CCP’s stated goal of the wormhole changes being increased activity, there appears to have been the opposite result in the holes we are rolling.
I’ll be keeping an eye on this.  I hope CCP is too.  I’ll also look out for abandoned towers.  I’d say the current active: inactive ratio is 1:1.  If those players are staying away, that ratio might skew a bit more to the left.

