---
layout: post
title: Fanfest 2014:  TwitchTV
date: 2014-05-04 17:18
author: grimmash@gmail.com
comments: true
categories: [Eve Online, Fanfest 2014, TwitchTV]
---
So, it has been a busy few weeks.&nbsp; I moved, again.&nbsp; I am refinishing multiple pieces of furniture.&nbsp; And in Eve I am making a lot of transitions that have left me with a bunch of half written articles, but no time to edit them into postable stuff.&nbsp; But I did follow FanFest pretty closely.<br /><br />There were a lot of things announced: Legion, new ships, the "new" dev cycle, and other stuff I am forgetting.&nbsp; I tried to follow it as close I can, and I bought the HD Stream through Twitch TV.<br /><br />While the content of FanFest was great, I have been rather disappointed by the stream.&nbsp; I work during normal business hours in the US EST timezone. Because of this I was hoping to use the mobile app on my iPhone to listen while working as I could, and then come home and watch the other panels while unpacking the new place.&nbsp; This did not really work out so well.<br /><br />The mobile app for Twitch is pretty awful.&nbsp; Laggy, drops connections all the time even with good data signals, and worst of all, it plays advertisements on a stream I paid for access to.&nbsp; That last bit is just plain stupid and greedy.&nbsp; Nothing quite matches the experience of the feed dying, reloading the app, and then having to sit through 30 secs of ad roll just to get back to the presentation.&nbsp; Bush league stuff, Twitch.<br /><br />Second, and I am not sure if this is on Twitch or CCP, but it is almost a day after the end of FanFest, and of about 54 panels that I can count on the schedule, 16 have been uploaded to watch after the fact.&nbsp; That is 30% of the panels.&nbsp; So paying for the HD stream was not really worth it, from the perspective of being able to see most of what happened.<br /><br /><i>Edit: Apparently roundtables were not recorded, at all.&nbsp; That sucks, but I just didn't notice it when I bought the stream.&nbsp; I guess caveat emptor.&nbsp; Still waiting on CCP Presents, or anything from Saturday though.&nbsp; Would have been nice had that been uploaded before the work week starts. </i><br /><br />I've delayed a few posts, especially regarding Industry stuff, because I wanted to see what came out at FanFest before writing up my takes on everything.&nbsp; We'll see what gets posted in the next few days, but I am not too hopeful at this point.<br /><br />All that said, I enjoyed being able to see the Keynotes and a few other panels, and overall I am impressed with a lot of the decisions CCP is making going forward in the Eve Universe.&nbsp; I hope to get a few posts up this week with the information we do have, especially regarding the future of Eve, as I think a lot of things can be inferred from the news over the last few weeks!
